[Music]
how's it going everyone and welcome back
to another episode of t- talks and this
episode we are joined by one of my
mentors the mxm trader all right what's
up guys welcome to T talks thank you T
first of all for having me on so most of
you as uh some of you know uh I'm the
mxm trader if you're in the ICT
community on Twitter you'll probably
know who I am however on YouTube a lot
of you on T's channel will know who I am
some of you might because T has a lot of
videos on models and different things
I've shared um and I was T's Mentor
earlier on once again thank you T for
having me on I hope you guys enjoy the
video we're going to be covering Market
maker models and we're going to cover
them from a higher time frame
understanding and perspective to a lower
time frame understanding and perspective
because what a market maker model is is
it's a hedging program
that the central banks use and we're
going to be looking at things like coot
for that on the higher time frame to
build in a higher time frame Market
maker model and the logic behind it all
the way down to trading it as a pattern
right and that's what it is it's a
pattern and because it's a pattern we
have to build a framework and narrative
to be in alignment with the higher time
frame institutional order flow and align
ourselves with it because trading a
pattern on its own is meaningless
all right so let's get into the higher
time frame with the market maker models
and looking at it as a hedging program
on the higher time frame of the central
banks so you can see here I have a
depiction of a market maker model and
I'm going to break down the logic of
what a market maker model is and what's
going on when you see that buy side and
sell side of a curve so this is a
bullish example so a market maker buy
model and you just inverse this for
bearish but what happens as price is
declining on the cell side of the curve
is the central banks are building in a
net long position as price is declining
so yes as pric is declining and prices
up here they are buying into sell-side
liquidity and building in blocks of
price that creat sell side liquidity now
why would they be buying on the drop
like this all the way up here as price
is declining because they need to offer
liquidity the central banks offer
liquidity to the large institutions and
us as retail
and to offer liquidity they need to
hedge so they buy in the decline as
price goes down down and then they
absorb all the cide liquidity and this
is where their net long this is where
the central banks actually make a profit
it's from the extreme net long position
at the very low of a market maker buy
model the smart money reversal or the
very high what they're doing here by
buying here they're
hedging their positions here and they're
selling them to the large funds and this
is how liquidity is provided so if this
was not going on in the market there'd
be no liquidity and the market wouldn't
move so that's why they break even
essentially on all these positions
offering liquidity but this is where
they make their
money right so what does this look like
on a coot commitment of Traders uh chart
so if you have a look here this is the
Japanese Yen Futures and when we're
looking at Co
we want to be looking at it on the
Futures chart so individual future
currencies not Euro against dollar or
USD against JPY you look at it on the
individual currency like the Yen Futures
and you'd never look at it on the dollar
so you can see here as price is
declining here we want to take the last
12 months of the coot data and we want
to split that 12 month range in half and
we want to see at a key time which is at
a new quarter for the high time frame
charts if the
commercials in terms of the central
banks are net long or
short and at this point here you can see
obviously in the last 12 months are they
above a 50 line or below they're
actually at the highest high they've
been in so at this point here the
commercials are net long on their
positions that's this here their net
long here and we can see that reflected
on the coot
data and now here is what it looks like
on the chart so this is this point right
here is right here so going back to that
uh diagram as the market is trading
lower they're
buying as it's dropping right and that's
you can see where they're buying through
the up Clos candles on the cell side of
the curve right this is the positions
where they're buying into the sell side
and then they're extreme net long here
this is where they make money from their
positions so their goal of doing this is
first to build in sells side liquidity
buy side liquidity above the highs so
they can pair orders and to offer
liquidity on the opposing end of the
curve to large institutions and this is
why we use mitigation blocks right so
we're mitigating the orders here on the
buy side of the curve and this is where
we as Market participants
can position oursel in Long positions we
know where they're going to mitigate and
where they're going to offer us a buying
opportunity it's in the old areas of
institutional buying which you can see
with the up close candles so this is
what it looks
like when we have that smart money
reversal and price starts to trade
higher through the bullish bearish order
blocks you can see Market comes back
down into it this is where they're
mitigating those oders to go go long
from you can see another example
here and here's the lower time frame so
this is a daily
chart and this is the lowest low where
they went extreme net long so at a old
low a high time frame discount level and
at a key time which is a new quarter on
the higher time frame
chart now that covers the hedging
program on the higher time frame and we
want to focus when we're trading the
market maker models as a range an mxm a
market maker buy or sell model is just a
range high to low or range low to high
AKA buy stops to sell stops or sell
stops to buy stops we trade lower time
frame ranges as mxms by pairing it with
a higher time frame key level a lower
time frame range will be identified as
the most obvious price swing where the
high and low or low and high connect to
each other so this is what our focus is
when we're looking at a market maker
model you're going to have the original
consolidation which is a Range High
you're going to have a distribution
phase one distribution phase two then
you're going to have a smart money
reversal a lowrisk buy which only forms
after a short-term breaker in here an
accumulation one which will happen at
Old distribution as we covered and an
accumulation to the second stage of
accumulation or distribution in a market
maker model paired with smt is the
Silver Bullet it's the highest
probability trade you'll have in the
market so this is how we'd anticipate in
accumulation phases here and on the
lowest buy you'd be looking for a
breaker here as well so another point of
mitigation so here's an example remember
High time frame key level lower time
frame range and that lower time frame
range is going to be your Market maker
buy or sell model so we have a premium
in discount here this is a weekly chart
we have a discount key level it's only a
key level because it's in discount the
market is bullish institutional order
flow we trade back down into the
discount key
level and on a lower time frame you want
a range and that range is your Market
maker buy model so as you can see this
low clearly connects to this high this
is your range low to Range High this is
a market maker buy model this this is
the sell side of the curve and this is
the buy side of the
curve here is your original
consolidation dropping time frames and
now the lowest low you want to mark that
everything to the left is the cell side
of the curve everything to the right is
the buy side of the curve so we want to
match the old areas of accumulation or
distribution and pair them
here so as you can see an old area of
institutional buying here with the the
bullish order block becomes a mitigation
block now when you're on the buy side of
the curve you want to pair the
mitigation block with a PD array that
forms within the range of that
mitigation block so you can see a fair
value Gap forms within the mitigation
block that is where the market will
offer mitigation to go long from we
trade through this level as well here we
trade back down into it is there a PD
array that formed within it we have a
bullish or block here and this is how we
trade and participate in the market
maker buy model another example here
this is just the recent price action on
uh dxy and we actually went long here in
the private
group so premium to Discount once again
key level daily fair value Gap here and
then we have a clear range on the same
time frame here so here the range low
the Range High here this is our Market
maker buy model smart money reversal at
the lowest low lowrisk buy after the
breaker remember accumulation one second
stage accumulation which is the Silver
Bullet which is usually the biggest most
explosive move and the highest
probability move when paired with smt so
we're going to extend the mitigation
blocks from the sell side of the curve
to the buy side of the curve and we're
going to pair it with a PD so here's the
mitigation block here in terms of a
breaker we pair it with the bullet
bullish order block here it gives us an
area of buying you have these two down
closed candles where there's old
institutional buying we pair it here
with the fair value Gap here to go long
from then the second stage of
accumulation the Silver Bullet we have
another position of mitigation we extend
it and we have another area where we can
go long from we have that smt at a fair
value Gap here making this the highest
probability trade here now let's talk
about external and internal range
liquidity internal and external T has a
lot of videos on this on his channel so
if you haven't uh got down internal and
external range liquidity I'm sure T will
link that somewhere for you guys so
we're going to pair that with time frame
alignment with the internal and external
range liquidity time frame alignment for
Market maker models and what do they
look like one of the keys to finding
clean Market maker models is
understanding the time frames they form
on on their relation to the time frame
of the p array time frames are directly
linked to each other and if you stick to
the rules I give you today you'll have a
lot more success identifying them so
this is the time frame alignment we're
going to use for internal to external or
external to internal this is not for the
ranges this is just for internal to
external and external to internal we're
going to be pairing a monthly PD with a
daily Market maker buy or cell model
weekly with a 4H hour daily with a 1
hour 4H hour with a 15 H1 with a 5 and
M15 with a M1 so in a market maker buy
model there's almost always two stages
of accumulation on the cell side of the
curve so as we're dropping down and in a
market maker sell model there's almost
always at least two stages of
accumulation on the byy side of the
curve the curve is defined by the lowest
low in a market maker buy model and the
highest high in a market maker sell
model and this is what it looks like so
original consolidation accumulation 1
and two the lowest low sell size buy
side of the
curve bearish example buy side and sell
side of the curve with the two
accumulation so here's an example of the
Australian dollar on the monthly chart
and remember we're covering internal to
external external to internal plays on
Market maker models we take external
range liquidity defined by the swing
High the market takes the external then
it draws to internal defined by a fair
value Gap from here to here to here on a
daily time frame is a market maker sell
model so if we drop to the Daily time
frame this is what it looks like so this
is your external range liquidity this is
your internal we have that original
consolidation an accumulation phase one
accumulation phase two then we have the
smart money reversal the highest high
displacement lower then we have the cell
side of the curve another example here
internal to external this is a weekly
internal range liquidity defined by the
fair value Gap we're trading to the
external range liquidity sell stops this
here on a 4H hour is a market maker sell
model so as you can see here again the
time frame alignment for the market
maker sell model here now daily to
H1 you've got the daily Market uh the
daily low to a H1 High here
we have a original consolidation on the
hourly accumulation one and two we run
the daily low external and we trade
higher on the buy side of the curve to
attack the market maker buy model in the
hourly here is a 4-Hour chart on Euro
AUD and if you look at this here here's
our internal external we're defining it
by this one because it's in discount so
from this high to this low this move
here
is a market maker sell model on the
15minute and you can see that clearly
here 15-minute original consolidation
accumulation Phase 1 and two before the
smart money reversal heading into the
cell side of the curve so you can see
when you blend the time frame alignment
this is when you can find very clean and
clear Market maker
models here is a hourly internal to
external range play and this here is a 5
minut Market maker B model original
consolidation accumulation 1 and two and
you can see we deliver to the high here
which is the internal R uh the external
range
liquidity 15 minute from this high to
this low with the internal here just
this here this move up to here and down
to here in a 15minute is a complete 1
minute Market maker cell model original
consolidation accumulation one two smart
money reversal and then price sells off
into the sell side of the
curve now we're going to blend the time
frame alignment with where we can find
entries which is as we've covered the
mitigation blocks so utilizing
mitigation blocks for high probability
enti trades in a market maker
model all right so here's the Australian
dollar example again we went from the
monthly external to internal range
liquidity here are your bullish order
blocks so your mitigation blocks we want
to extend this out to the cell side of
the curve and then we want to pair it
with a PD that forms within the range of
the bullish order blocks turned
mitigation you can see we extend the
first one out does it have a PD array
that forms within it yes we have the
fair value Gap here that forms within it
mitigation occurs here sells off we come
back up into the bullish order blocks
here we have a bearish order block
formed within the range you can see
mitigation occurs there we sell off if
we go to the next mitigation block here
extended out you can see a fair value
Gap forms within the range here so when
we're pairing the mitigation blocks with
the cell side or buy side of the curve
we want to see a new PD form within the
range GBP cat example here for on The
Daily to the hourly here so you can see
here we have the original consolidation
a few accumulation phases here three in
this case then the smart money reversal
so you can see the mitigation the
bullish order blocks here we're going to
extend them out the first one here we
extended
out we trade through it a PD forms
within the range of the order block
mitigation occurs here too long we
extend the next one out fair value Gap
forms within it mitigation occurs here
once again the last set of upclose
candles that we can use for mitigation
you can see order block here the two
down closed candles formed within it you
have an opportunity to go along there
thank you mxm for coming on and sharing
with us if you guys did enjoy it make
sure to check out his links in the
description below and if you want to see
another video from mxm go ahead and like
And subscribe and then leave a comment
in the comment section Below on which
topic you would like discussed with that
I hope you have a great rest of your day
and I'll see you see you guys next time